The Tutinama tales are Persian series of 52 stories which is narrated by the parrot,
as he tries to distract his mistress from committing an illicit affair, while her husband
is on business trip. Each night the parrot narrates a new story to distract the mistress.
The one that I will be narrating is the Tale of the 15th night: The Lion Disturbed
by mice who eat the food trapped in his aging teeth. The 15th tale begins with an old Lion
with decaying tooth resting on the ground. The surrounding setting of the picture radiates
a sense of gloomy environment. The flowers painted on the rocks are not blossoming and seem
dead or even nonexistent. The roses in front of the lion are dipping downwards.
Whenever the lion ate food it will get stuck in his decaying tooth and once he
falls asleep, the mice will try to eat the food that was stuck in his decaying tooth.
The lion is tired and decides to take some rest. He falls asleep worried about the annoying mice
that disturb his sleep every day. Yet once again, the situation repeats itself. As soon as the
lion is asleep the mice would start eating the food on his tooth. Lion would wake up as the
mice disturb him in the middle of his sleep. The lion decided to consult with the fox to find
an effective solution to fix his disturbance and allow him to rest peacefully. The fox came up
with an effective plan. Fox suggested that he should appoint the cat as his guard to stop the
disturbances he has been suffering with. Lion agrees with the Fox’s advice and decides to
appoint cat. The cat’s duty is to guard the Lion as he sleeps and fight off the mice that are
causing him disturbance. In this scene, the landscape seems pleasant like spring. The flowers
are blossoming on the stone paintings and trees are bearing fruits. The environment is
positive and lively. However, the next scene is very gruesome. As the cat is scaring the mice
away one by one, so that they don’t disturb the Lion. , However, the cat would only scare
of the mice and not kill them, as the cat thought that if there were no mice then lion will
have no reason to reward and praise the cat. The mice are scattering everywhere in chaos,
scared of the cat eating them. But the Lion sleeps peacefully. Lion is happy to finally have
peaceful sleep, he decides to reward the cat with a promotion. One day, the cat decides to
take a day off for business purpose and sends her kitten as her replacement. The kitten while
on the duty kills all the mice. When the cat returns she is furious that kitten killed all
mice. Soon the lion cut ties with the cat and eradicates the honour he had once given to
the cat, for not doing the job faithfully in the first place.